package main

import "fmt"

// 97 Go Extension Notes
func Demo97GoExtensionNotes() {
	fmt.Println("-- 97 Go Extension (notes) --")
	fmt.Println("Use the official VS Code Go extension for formatting, linting, debugging.")
}
Now you must be wondering, why am I taking up the topic of Go extension for VS code now?

We have come so far in this course and now I am bringing up the topic of Go extension, and that is

because we have been working on Go and making use of the Go extension for quite a while now.

We are subconsciously observing what's happening inside our code.

We are getting some squiggly lines.

We are getting error messages when we have used an incorrect message, or we have passed an incorrect

argument to a function.

So we have seen the behavior of the Go extension in the VS code, and it is about time to discuss a

little further about what it actually is doing and what it actually is made of.

Madoff.

So first let's go through the introduction of the Go extension for VS code.

It provides a comprehensive set of features that include syntax checking, linting, and error reporting

that align closely with the go compiler and tools.

Now let's see how it works.

Key features of the Go extension for VS code include.

Syntax highlighting.

The purpose of syntax highlighting is to help in visually differentiating parts of the code, such as

keywords, variables, and types, which aids in readability and spotting syntax errors.

How it works is that the extension uses language grammar files to provide color coding for different

elements in the go language.

Next, we have error reporting and diagnostics through the Go extension.

Attention.

The purpose of error reporting and diagnostics is to provide real time feedback on errors and potential

issues in the code before running it, and we are making use of it a lot frequently, because as soon

as we type something incorrect, even before we are running the code, we are getting the error message

in our code.

When we hover over that squiggly line, we get a long error message using which we can correct our code.

So how it works is that the go extension uses the go plus language server.

So it's Gopls and that's the language server.

It's the Goes language server protocol implementation to analyze the code as you type.

So this language server protocol is analyzing your code in real time as you're typing it.

Gopls performs syntax checking, type checking, and provides diagnostics based on the go compiler's

rules.

Errors and warnings are shown directly in the editor, often with squiggly lines and inline messages.

Next feature of go extension is linting lint.

So that's linting.

Linting identifies potential issues that may not be strictly errors, but could lead to problems or

are against go conventions.

And that's how we get warnings.

The warnings are also squiggly lines, but they are highlighted in yellow and they are something that

we can avoid and still run our code if we have an error in our code, then it will definitely generate

an error and the code will not compile.

It will not run.

But warning is something that can be avoided, that can be discarded, and the code will still run.

So we can run the code even if we have warning messages in our code base.

How linting works is that the extension integrates with linters like go lint, static check, and Gocheck

to provide feedback on code quality and adherence to best practices.

Another feature that we have is code formatting.

Code formatting automatically formats the code to follow Go's formatting conventions, even if we do

not have a leading space.

And as soon as we hit control S, we have leading space in our go code, even if the indentation is

incorrect.

As soon as we hit Ctrl s, the indentation will automatically correct itself.

Using code formatting feature of go extension.

How it works is that the extension uses go fmt or go imports to format the code and sharing consistent

code style and structure.

And another feature that we notice is code navigation.

It provides features like go to definition, find references and code suggestions.

So when we control click a variable or a function, then we find all the references of that function

or that variable inside our code.

And we also have go to definition.

We can go to the definition of that function where it is defined.

So how it works is that go TLS enables these features by analyzing the code base and understanding the

relationships between different parts of the code.

So as I stated earlier, your code is being analyzed real time.

And that's how these features, these different functions of go extension work.

And if we visit the Go extension on GitHub, we see that it mentions intellisense.

And even in the description that we see on VS code for the Go extension, it states something called

intellisense as the first feature highlight.

So IntelliSense offers code suggestions, auto completions, and function signatures as you type.

The extension uses language server features to suggest code completions based on the current context

and the available libraries.

And finally, we have a debugging feature in the go code extension.

It allows us to set breakpoints, step through code, and inspect variables during runtime.

How it works is that it integrates with Go's debugging tools like delve to provide a powerful debugging

experience directly within the VS code editor.

So what go vs code extension does is that we get a go compiler before we run the compiler, because

go vs code extension analyzes our code based on the instructions that are fed to the go compiler.

However, yes, there are certain errors that are only caught when we run the code, But yes, there

are many, many errors that we do avoid before even running the code.

So the go extension does contain a lot of rules that the go compiler follows and generates error in

our code based on those rules.

So let's see how the go extension aligns with the go compiler.

The go extensions.

Error reporting and linting are designed to be consistent with what the go compiler reports.

This helps ensure that the feedback provided by the extension is reliable and relevant.

The go code extension also has pre-compilation checks.

Many errors and issues are detected before code execution due to the static analysis performed by Gopls

and integrated tools.

This pre-emptive feedback helps catch problems early in the development process.

And now let's come to real time feedback that we get from the Go extension.

As you write or modify your code, the extension updates its diagnostics and suggestions in real time,

reflecting the state of your code as closely as possible to what would be seen if you were to compile

or run it.

Overall, the Go extension for VS code provides a robust set of features that align closely with Go's

compiler and tools.

It ensures that you receive timely feedback on code errors, adherence to go conventions and potential

issues, enhancing the development experience and helping maintain code quality.


